Angular Integration Guide (#1082)
o1-labs/docs2: docs/zkapps/front-end-integration-guides/angular.mdx

## Call Contracts

- Move back into the Angular project.
- To interact with the deployed `Add` contract, we’ll add code to fetch the current state and initiate a transaction. This code will execute only in the browser, so we'll add it to `afterNextRender` in the constructor of `src/app/app.component.ts`.
    - `afterNextRender` only runs after the Angular component has fully rendered.
    - The Auro wallet injects a Mina provider into the global context. It is accessible as `window.mina`.

```tsx
import {afterNextRender, Component} from '@angular/core';
import {RouterOutlet} from '@angular/router';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [RouterOutlet],
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrl: './app.component.scss'
})

> export class AppComponent {

Author: I prefer to see the code inline, in tutorial 4 where we have readers download worker files and drop them into their own projects it felt a bit like we were saying "this part isn't too important so just download these". I thought about trying to split it up but I think that also makes it easy to make a mistake copying the file.

    "builder": "@angular-devkit/build-angular:dev-server",
    "options": {
      "headers": {
        "Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy": "same-origin",
        "Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy": "require-corp"
      }
    },
```

- Restart the server with `npm run start` and view the application in the browser again - the `SharedArrayBuffer` error should be gone!

## Loading o1js

- We still have another error: `Uncaught ReferenceError: __async is not defined`.
- This one comes from the way Angular bundles dependencies internally. We'll address it by supplying our own custom webpack config which will exclude o1js from the bundle generated by Angular. Then we'll copy o1js into our static assets directory so it's served with the app and use import maps to import o1js directly.

### Create a Custom Webpack Config

- Start by creating a custom webpack config by adding a file `webpack.config.js` at the root of your project with the following contents:

```jsx
module.exports = {
  externals: {
    'o1js': 'o1js'
  }
};
```

### Update Builders to Use Custom Webpack

- Install builders which support using custom webpack configs - Angular's default builder will ignore the webpack file.

```bash

> npm i @angular-builders/custom-webpack

Author: For some reason I am not getting this conflict but hardcoding versions is a good idea for the tutorial either way! I have updated them

> npm i @angular-builders/custom-webpack

Reviewer: The issue I linked is not closed, so probably angular 19 should work now.

- Verify that the current `num` on the `Add` zkapp is logged, meaning that we're successfully reading state from the contract at `B62qnTDEeYtBHBePA4yhCt4TCgDtA4L2CGvK7PirbJyX4pKH8bmtWe5` on Devnet.
- Verify that "Compiled Add" is logged, meaning that the SDK has successfully generated a proving key for the `Add` zkapp.
- If you're connected to Devnet and your account is funded with Devnet tokens, you should be be able to broadcast a successful transaction calling `update` on the zkapp. After a few minutes, the state change associated with the transaction will take effect on chain and you'll see `num` increase when you reload the page!

## Deploying to GitHub Pages

- Now we'll set the app up for deployment to GitHub pages.
- Publish your project to a GitHub repository.
- Run `ng deploy` and select GitHub Pages.
- Add `baseHref` to `options` under `build` in angular.json with the name of your GitHub repository.
    - **Do not remove the slashes!**

```json
"baseHref": "/<your-github-repo-name>/"
```

- Create a deploy script in package.json which copies the required libraries

```json

> "deploy": "npm run copy-libs && ng deploy --dir=dist/<project-name>"

Reviewer: This gave me `Error: Unknown argument: dir` at first.  I had to execute `ng deploy` with no arguments first, then select github pages from some menu, then it understood the `--dir` argument.

Author: Maybe you missed the step on line 349 🤔

```

- Deploy the app.

```bash
npm run deploy
```

- You can view deployment details at `https://github.com/<username>/<repo-name>/actions` and your live site at `https://<username>.github.io/<repo-name>/`.

> ## SharedArrayBuffer in Deployed Instance

Author: I had them deploy and hit the error first both here and in other parts of the tutorial because I think it makes it easier to understand why we use all of these different configs if the user runs into the errors themselves. This one is kind of a hassle because they have to do the full gh pages deployment though so I'm open to changing it if you prefer it the other way around

```

- Update the script that copies `o1js` to `public` to also include the `coi-serviceworker` file:

```json
"copy-libs": "mkdir -p public/lib/o1js && cp node_modules/o1js/dist/web/index.js public/lib/o1js/index.js && cp node_modules/coi-serviceworker/coi-serviceworker.min.js public/lib/coi-serviceworker.min.js"
```

- Create a file `src/app/COIServiceWorker.ts` with the following contents.
    - Be sure to replace `<your repo name>` with the name of your GitHub repo!

```tsx
export {};

function loadCOIServiceWorker() {
  console.log('Load COIServiceWorker', navigator);
  if (typeof window !== 'undefined' && 'serviceWorker' in navigator && window.location.hostname != 'localhost') {
    navigator.serviceWorker.register('/<your repo name>/lib/coi-serviceworker.min.js')
      .then(registration => console.log('COI Service Worker registered with scope:', registration.scope))
      .catch(error => console.error('COI Service Worker registration failed:', error));
  }
}

loadCOIServiceWorker();
```

- Import it at the top of `src/app/app.component.ts`.

```tsx
import './COIServiceWorker';
```

- Redeploy the application with the `COIServiceWorker` files.

```bash
npm run deploy
```

> ## Congratulations, you’ve developed and deployed a zkApp UI with Angular!

Reviewer: I still get the post message error on https://45930.github.io/ng-integration-guide/

My COI service worker is registered:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0ac3dff3-440b-4554-bad4-2bfd2b29b5ab)

Do we also need to configure what headers to add?

Reviewer: @hattyhattington17 This is an outstanding issue I still have after following the guide.  Most of the other comments are more opinion-based, but this should be resolved.

Author: I've updated this step so that the coi service worker is imported from the index.html file instead of in the ts

---

> title: Angular and Github Pages

Reviewer 2: nit: GitHub for consistency

description: Getting started with Angular
keywords:
  - angular
  - ui
  - sharedarraybuffer
---

# Angular Integration Guide
## Install a Wallet

- Install a wallet that supports zkApp transactions. For this tutorial, we’ll use **Auro Wallet**. [Download it here](https://www.aurowallet.com/).
- Add the Auro Wallet browser extension.
- Open the extension and follow the steps to create a new wallet.
- Click **"Mainnet"** at the top of the extension view, then select **Show Testnet** from the menu. After that, select **Devnet**.
    - Using Devnet will allow us to interact with a test version of the Mina network without needing to spend real Mina to pay for transaction fees.
- Fund your wallet using the [Mina Faucet](https://faucet.minaprotocol.com/).

>     - You'll need to wait about 3 minutes to see the change in balance reflected on chain. You can use [Minascan](https://minascan.io/devnet) to track the status of your transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - You'll need to wait one block (~3 minutes) to see the change in balance reflected on chain. You can use [Minascan](https://minascan.io/devnet) to track the status of your transaction.
```
It would be better elaborate the reason for the wait.

## Initialize the Project

> - Install the Angular cli globally:

Reviewer 2: nit: cli is written uppercase in other parts of the documentation.

```bash
npm install -g @angular/cli
```

- Create a new Angular project by running:

```bash
ng new <project-name>
```

> - Install the Angular cli `npm install -g @angular/cli`

Reviewer 2: nit: cli

- Create a new project `ng new <project-name>`
    - Select your preferred stylesheet format.
    - For **Server-Side Rendering (SSR)** and **Static Site Generation (SSG/Prerendering)**, choose **Yes**.
- Install the `o1js` library:

```bash
cd <project-name>
npm install o1js
```

- Start the local development server.
    - This command runs `ng serve` which we will further configure by changing `options` under the `serve` build target in `angular.json`.

```bash
npm run start
```

## Create the ZkApp Contract

- Navigate out of the demo project directory and install the `zkapp-cli` globally:

```bash
cd ../
npm install -g zkapp-cli
```

> - Initialize a new zkapp with the cli. When prompted to create a UI project, select **none**.

Reviewer 2: nit: cli

```bash
zk project add
```

- Change into the newly created `add` directory and build the contract:

```bash
cd add
npm run build
```

- We've already deployed an instance of the default `Add` contract to Devnet at [B62qnTDEeYtBHBePA4yhCt4TCgDtA4L2CGvK7PirbJyX4pKH8bmtWe5](https://minascan.io/devnet/account/B62qnTDEeYtBHBePA4yhCt4TCgDtA4L2CGvK7PirbJyX4pKH8bmtWe5) so you won't need to deploy the contract you just created. You'll still need to include the contract code in your project so that it can be compiled into a verification key and proving key.
    - The proving key enables users to generate proofs of valid contract execution directly in their browsers. A user can run a contract call locally, create a proof of its execution using the proving key, and then publish the proof on-chain to update the zkApp’s state. Since the verification key is stored on-chain, the network will accept a transaction sent to this address if it includes a proof generated with the proving key that matches the on-chain verification key.

## Call Contracts

> - Move back into the angular project.

Reviewer 2: nit: Angular

### Create a Custom Webpack Config

- Start by creating a custom webpack config by adding a file `webpack.config.js` at the root of your project with the following contents:

```jsx
module.exports = {
  externals: {
    'o1js': 'o1js'
  }
};
```

### Update Builders to Use Custom Webpack

- Install builders which support using custom webpack configs - Angular's default builder will ignore the webpack file.

```bash
npm i @angular-builders/custom-webpack
```

- Update the `serve` and `build` build targets to use the `@angular-builders/custom-webpack` builders and load the file.
    - In `angular.json` under `/projects/angular-o1js-demo/architect/build`, replace the default builder `"builder": "@angular-devkit/build-angular:application",` with `"builder": "@angular-builders/custom-webpack:browser"`.
        - rename the browser property to `main` in `options`.
        - add  `"customWebpackConfig": { "path": "./webpack.config.js" },` to `options`.
        - delete `server`, `prerender`, and `ssr` from `options`.

>     - In `angular.json` under `/projects/angular-o1js-demo/architect/serve`, replace the default builder `"builder": "@angular-devkit/build-angular:dev-server",` with ` "builder": "@angular-builders/custom-webpack:dev-server".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - In `angular.json` under `/projects/angular-o1js-demo/architect/serve`, replace the default builder `"builder": "@angular-devkit/build-angular:dev-server",` with `"builder": "@angular-builders/custom-webpack:dev-server"`.
```
 missing backtick

    },
    "development": {
      "optimization": false,
      "extractLicenses": false,
      "sourceMap": true
    }
  },
  "defaultConfiguration": "production"
},
"serve": {
  "builder": "@angular-builders/custom-webpack:dev-server",
  "configurations": {
    "production": {
      "buildTarget": "<project-name>:build:production"
    },
    "development": {
      "buildTarget": "<project-name>:build:development"
    }
  },
  "options": {
    "headers": {
      "Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy": "same-origin",
      "Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy": "require-corp"
    }
  },
  "defaultConfiguration": "development"
},
```

### Copy o1js into Static Assets

- Now we'll write a script to copy o1js into `public` where our static assets are served along with the application and then import it directly with an `importmap`.
- Add a script to `package.json` that copies o1js from `node_modules` to a new directory at `public/lib/o1js`.
    - Files under public are served with the app, so the file itself will be available at `http://localhost:4200/lib/o1js/index.js`.

```json
"copy-libs": "mkdir -p public/lib/o1js && cp node_modules/o1js/dist/web/index.js public/lib/o1js/index.js"
```

> - add the `copy-o1js-lib` task to the build script and the start script.

Reviewer 2: nit: Add

import type * as o1jsTypes from 'o1js';
declare var o1js: typeof o1jsTypes;
```

- Remove the import of o1js inside of `afterNextRender` and replace it with this:

```tsx
const {Mina, PublicKey, fetchAccount} = o1js;
```

## Running the App Locally

- Congratulations! The app should work as expected when served with `npm run start` (`ng serve`).
- Restart the application with `npm run start`.
- Verify that `Set the global o1js instance: Module {…}` was logged in the console, indicating that o1js was successfully loaded from our public assets.
- Verify that the current `num` on the `Add` zkapp is logged, meaning that we're successfully reading state from the contract at `B62qnTDEeYtBHBePA4yhCt4TCgDtA4L2CGvK7PirbJyX4pKH8bmtWe5` on Devnet.
- Verify that "Compiled Add" is logged, meaning that the SDK has successfully generated a proving key for the `Add` zkapp.
- If you're connected to Devnet and your account is funded with Devnet tokens, you should be be able to broadcast a successful transaction calling `update` on the zkapp. After a few minutes, the state change associated with the transaction will take effect on chain and you'll see `num` increase when you reload the page!

> ## Deploying to Github Pages

Reviewer 2: nit: GitHub
